---
title: Setup
---

In this workshop, we will practice analyzing qualitative data with the
software QualCoder and a collection of interviews about data reuse
published online. Please follow the steps below before the workshop to
set up your computer.

## Data Sets

The [Qualitative Data Repository](https://qdr.syr.edu) (QDR) is a free
archive of qualitative and mixed methods data. Openly-licensed datasets
can be downloaded for teaching or research, but require free
registration. To register, visit the QDR homepage and click “Register”
at the top right of the page and complete and submit the form on the
next page. For questions about QDR and registration, please contact
[qdr\@syr.edu](mailto:qdr@syr.edu).

During the workshop, we will walk through the process of navigating QDR
to find and download our dataset, as well as importing it to QualCoder.
Datasets are subject to the QDR license agreement. This workshop
curriculum is openly licensed
([CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)) for reuse and
adaption.

## Software Setup

We will use the free Coding and Qualitative Data Analysis software
QualCoder throughout the workshop. QualCoder is a cross-platform tool
that works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.

Please find installation instructions for the most recent stable version
(currently 3.6) on the [QualCoder
Wiki](https://github.com/ccbogel/QualCoder/releases/). The installers
mentioned in the instructions can be found below the instructions on the
Wiki page. *Note that both Windows and Mac instructions have extra steps
described in the wiki to ensure the app is fully installed with adequate
permissions.*
